CHAPTER 1 THE RIGHT TO BE RICH
Whatever may be said in praise of poverty, the fact remains that it is not possible to
live a really complete or successful life unless one is rich.
No man can rise to his greatest possible height in talent or soul development unless he has
plenty of money, for to unfold a soul and to develop talent he must have many things
to use, and he cannot have these things unless he has money to buy them with.
A man develops in mind, soul and body by making use of things, and society is so organized
that man must have money in order to become the possessor of things, therefore the basis
of all advancement for a man must be the science of getting rich.
The object of all life is development, and everything that lives has an inalienable right
to all the development it is capable of attaining.
Man's right to life means his right to have the free and unrestricted use of all the things
which may be necessary to his fullest mental, spiritual and physical unfoldment, or in other
words his right to be rich.
In this book I shall not speak of riches in a figurative way.
To be really rich does not mean to be satisfied or contented with a little.
No man ought to be satisfied with a little if he is capable of using and enjoying more.
The purpose of nature is the advancement and unfoldment of life, and every man should have
all that can contribute to the power, elegance, beauty and richness of life.
To be content with less is sinful.
The man who owns all he wants for the living of all the life he is capable of living is
rich, and no man who has not plenty of money can have all he wants.
Life has advanced so far and become so complex that even the most ordinary man or woman requires
a great amount of wealth in order to live in a manner that even approaches completeness.
Every person naturally wants to become all that they are capable of becoming.
This desire to realize innate possibilities is inherent in human nature.
We cannot help wanting to be all that we can be.
Success in life is becoming what you want to be.
You can become what you want to be only by making use of things, and you can have the
free use of things only as you become rich enough to buy them.
To understand the science of getting rich is therefore the most essential of all knowledge.
There is nothing wrong in wanting to get rich.
The desire for riches is really the desire for a richer, fuller and more abundant life,
and that desire is praiseworthy.
The man who does not desire to live more abundantly is abnormal, and so the man who does not desire
to have money enough to buy all he wants is abnormal.
There are three motives for which we live.
We live for the body, we live for the mind, we live for the soul.
No one of these is better or holier than the other.
All are alike desirable, and no one of the three, body, mind or soul, can live fully
if either of the others is cut short of full life and expression.
It is not right or noble to live only for the soul and deny mind or body, and it is
wrong to live for the intellect and deny body or soul.
We are all acquainted with the lawsome consequences of living for the body and denying both mind
and soul, and we can see that real life means the complete expression of all that man can
give forth through body, mind and soul.
Whatever he can say, no man can be really happy or satisfied unless his body is living
fully in every function and unless the same is true for his mind and his soul.
Wherever there is unexpressed possibility or function not performed, there is unsatisfied
desire.
Desire is possibility seeking expression or function seeking performance.
Man cannot live fully in body without good food, comfortable clothing and warm shelter,
and without freedom from excessive toil.
Rest and recreation are also necessary for his physical life.
He cannot live fully in mind without books and time to study them, without opportunity
to travel and observation, or without intellectual companionship.
To live fully in mind he must have intellectual recreations, and must surround himself with
all the objects of art and beauty he is capable of using and appreciating.
To live fully in soul, man must have love, and love is denied expression by poverty.
A man's highest happiness is found in the bestowal of benefits on those he loves.
Love finds its most natural and spontaneous expression in giving.
The man who has nothing to give cannot fill his place as a husband or father, as a citizen
or as a man.
It is in the use of material things that the man finds full life for his body, develops
his mind and unfolds his soul.
It is therefore for supreme importance to him that he should be rich.
It is perfectly right that you should desire to be rich.
If you are a normal man or woman you cannot help doing so.
It is perfectly right that you should give your best attention to the science of getting
rich, for it is the noblest and most necessary of all studies.
If you neglect this study you are derelict in your duty to yourself, to God and humanity,
for you can render to God and humanity no greater service than to make the most of yourself.